Thank you very much, everyone, and for participating and coming. Thank you very much. Again, today
's very special day, according to where the Buddha is the calendar.
Today is the Thavak Phuchit, who is at the Synod of Heaven, which is considered one of the very
important marriage holiday.
We do some virtuous activity, Dharma practices. Whatever we do, we reflect our compassion, loving
kindness and thought to all others, according to our capabilities.
According to the teaching, it is really powerful. It will multiply, break, very beautiful, come to
time, it is so season of timing, the situation is so good according to teaching. So therefore,
again, we have a great opportunity to again be targeted in discussing the teaching of the Buddha
Dharma according to our common abilities, not just in discussing, but also in trying to observe
that in our heart and practices and kind of activating our Dharma practice.
This is a wonderful, which is beautiful, and which is really one of the very great things we can do
in our lives. There are many other great things, but this is something that we touch to our heart,
our goal, our very beings, our own being, which is very, very special.
And with that, again, bring more joy and appreciation. I bring joy and appreciation to ourselves
and feel good while we are doing that. I think we can feel happy with that, and that we need
practice too. That is Dharma too. Bring joy and happy with our deeds, our attitude, our motivation
while we are doing that.
And we are in practice, it is wonderful, beautiful. It is not just making those words like I am
making them. It is true, it is a really beautiful, special, pure in appreciation with content heart
of the love and completion.
God knows anybody who can describe with that, that is not good. It is very wonderful, it is special
. And of course all the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, every enlightenment will be appreciated, and there
will be acknowledge to our deeds, and we can keep on that.
With that thought, and then bodhisattva, as we all know, again, and our gathering towards it,
practice is the purpose, the benefit of all human beings according to Mahayana practitioners.
When we take the bodhisattva, we think to everyone trying to help and support them, to bring them
to the enlightened state. For that very reason, I am really practicing.
This is absolutely the best upon completion, taking over all living beings. This bodhisattva
completion has no boundaries, that we all know that.
So extend our love and completion and pray to every living being. We hear that sincerely from our
heart and the mind, and we do that. That is again so powerful, so special.
And then also then we deliver, it will make us one of the peace makers in the world, in a localized
way. Peace maker, peace started not from outside, it started from our heart, heart, our soul.
And so bring the peace and harmony to our soul, peace and harmony to our family, peace and harmony
to our neighbors, our friends in our world. That is how to start peace making.
Peace making has quadruple effects. Peace, we make peace and harmony, and it is wonderful. And with
those towards, and again we are going to activate our realization of the three Vedic states, of
beauty states.
Like the Vadiyana teaching, always what I said in the Vadiyana teaching, all the master's view,
everything is beauty state, even though we don't really see like this moment, but reality is pure.
So at least lining up our motivation to all that direction, to that everything is beauty states,
whether a form, whether a song, whether a mind in space, many of you already know those things.
So it's not just a kind of, leave that intellectual state is only sharp or somewhere else behind
scene, but activating that is known as practicing.
That is really known as practice. So that is our kind of responsibility in a way, so therefore
react to any of that.
With those towards, then we go to the teaching of the great, great master, his own union in that
teaching we have followed. So again, we went yesterday, what we went on this, we went yesterday,
there were about seven of the lines of this half advice, seven lines.
And which is, again, a reality. And do not mistake about the result of the virtues and virtues,
actions.
So that means, do not mistake, that means what? Don't ignore. Don't ignore. Don't kind of skip the
wave.
Every action has resolved consequences. Whether it's good, whether it's small, we're really trying
to be very thoughtful. Mindfulness.
If we do the mindfulness with our actions, then it has very virtues, because I think we know what
means virtues, what means the un-writuals.
So every action, not kind of like naively ignoring and kind of like just kind of broken, if we can
keep on that, so speak.
Even the smallest actions can have hugely resolved, as we know. Smallest actions, whether it is the
smallest, the negativities, best upon the ignorance and attachment and anger and self-emotional
action, it has resolved, big result, according to the Buddha's teaching.
Even the smallest actions of the rituals, something barely be here activities, nice smile to the
others, kind of nice welcoming to the other, just a simple word, one second or two minutes or one
minute.
That action, according to Buddhism, it has really big effect, big helps, help. And that is what in
the Buddha's teaching, using examples.
Small, the sparking fires, sparking fires can burn the whole city. It starts from a small fire, a
small sparking, sparking, or in a small bosom, putting in one big bowl or something.
So it has, it kills or disturbs so many beings. Similarly, medicine, when we take, is not big,
complex, it is small, but it has meaning, effect, same way that our mind, actions really do that.
And then of course you all know that virtuous activity or non-virtuous activities. Again, being
practiced on earth is not just a leap of knowledge on the shelf or behind somewhere, mind or on the
brain.
I have activated that as much as you can. Oh we can, I'm not just a you, we all should, really
activated that. That is known as practices. You can be happy with that.
But I'm doing, doing, should dedicate it, then merit, that is merit to all the beings. And somehow
is not acting exactly, I lined our practice, even the smallest of things.
And we notice that immediately the purify. Purify, clean way. Shouldn't stay that strain, that
shadow in our mental states, or in the Buddha teaching, alliance, then it goes deeper, deeper,
clean way as much as we can.
And when stress, more can come in Facebook, you really see it. It is known as practitioners. So
here, the great master, he is the only individual, he said, not don't mistakes.
We shouldn't mistake our actions. Can't be ignoring something is all, even if it is a kind of
negative video or not, good at giving, oh that's okay, that's okay, it's too small.
We shouldn't do that, every cane. We shouldn't ignore it. Even the smallest things, or that's too
small, what has big deals with this. No, it has big deals.
Now whatever our attitude, the mind, our collective, it really has big impacts. That Buddha, the
greatest feature of Buddha, Master, Guru, Bhai Ma, some of you, they all use the examples, those
poisons, the fires, medicine, all those use the examples, trying to ring that bell in our heart and
mind, our brain.
Brain is true, that is what here says. So all those actions. And then with this, next one is then,
in the Vedic Anatici, we went yesterday to the, then next one is this.
This is his own Dhunurubji, listed whole permanent wealth, whole permanent wealth, what should be
regarded in this pulse, known as everlasting wealth of the practic note, that should be regarded as
indispensable, indispensable.
This whole wealth is on Dhunurubji listed. This wealth is so important.
We will have to make our practice more rich, more performant, more developed, and more like
advanced to the part.
These four are so important. They are necessary. They are the life force of the practitioners. They
are the life force. Somehow, if we are missing this wealth, then we become poor, spiritually poor.
And then we become poorer and poorer. If we reduce that, lower and lower, all this, this
understanding, this lower dhun, lower dhun, we become poorer and poorer.
Then maybe we have to find the bank, what to call it, bankruptcies, spiritual bankruptcies. Bank
ruptcies.
We really don't. And then, many times that happens. Practitioners. Not just only now, but in Chind
ang too.
Then they are thinking something, they have a big thing, such as a Dzogchin, Mahamudara, Zalong,
and Tomodekara, looking to those things, that really they will miss the point.
This is the wealth. Whether you practice in the Dzogchin, whether you practice in Mahamudara,
whether you practice in Tomodekara, we need this wealth.
And we don't have this wealth. Our practice of Dzogchin practices, they become dry. Dry has no
monsters, no nutrition.
So therefore, here is the everlasting wealth. If we have that, always the practice of Dzogchin, Mah
amudara, Zalong, all our biological practices become so rich, so fulfillment.
It's really so rural. And if we don't have these things, these qualities, wealth. Wealth, as well
as these coordinate factors, are inevitable.
If we don't follow that, then we become, of course, shallow practitioners. And it becomes almost
like failures.
So therefore, we like to leave fulfillment as successful, as great masters in Dzogchin, as great
masters in popular images, as great masters in Maharaya past.
This wealth is, this is the wealth, all those great masters.
Among that, we discussed yesterday, the teacher, the root teacher, went through little details of,
I mean, you know already, we discussed those things before, and I'm sure you know already this.
Teacher is, they are divided into four different teachers, four groups of teachers.
For ourselves, our capabilities, most of us, only beings. That means we are with emotions, with ego
clings, with dualities.
We will not have capability, according to the teaching, capabilities to receive the teaching from
body circles.
What that means, those individually, or practitioners, who have any positive meaning, positive
meaning, or even the accumulation part, education part, those great masters, we won't have the
capability to see.
Maybe there's also not really many that we can meet. Maybe there is some, but according to the
Buddha teaching, realization is kept as quiet and peaceful, as a stone of the depths of oceans.
They're not bragging, showing. Even they're bragging, showing something, we won't trust them.
Or even say that openly we won't trust them, we will confront them. Therefore, our capabilities is
among those four teachers, the perfect, good, ordinary teacher, which has those qualifications,
great master, great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, high might, and indicated.
And we have all those teachers. That is what really we should contact.
Use that and we can then add one's to the part. Have those. Those things.
So, and that is how we respect, teaching we respect with appreciation, joy, devotion.
And also preciousness. Preciousness. And then, in the teaching, as I said yesterday, we hang out
with others, what the teacher said.
Respect as kings, or leaders. Respect as our dear uncles. Respect our dear fathers.
Respect as our dear mothers. And precious and preserving honor, and keep, and respect as our eye,
the eye, two eyes.
And respect and honor in life, keep life as our heart.
Our growth of the spiritual realization is very much dependent upon, to the qualified teachers.
Until we have some high realization. Then, of course, we can advance as teachers, one after another
.
But however, in the Buddha teaching, he said, what Buddha said, he said,
"Until you read the enlightenment, for complete Buddha would never give up the teaching."
Always is. "Until you read the enlightenment, you should contact with the qualified teacher or the
teacher."
Of course, the qualified teacher. Contact them. It's so important. So spacious.
There is no single Buddha, or no single Buddhist surface. It is the realization without the teacher
.
Everyone really has realization and become the Buddha, because of the connecting to the qualified
teaching,
and following the instructions, and keep instructions in the heart, and following them.
That's what it really is. So therefore, to keep the connection with joy and appreciation,
and with respect and prayerfulness, devotion, that is wealth. Spiritual wealth.
If we do this, we will become more richer. It's not something that we are benefiting to the teacher
.
It includes, you nourish, we nourish ourselves. Read all those great Masters of the Master.
And now too, all those great Masters we call, how in their life story, how they contract to their
Masters,
how they preserve, and honor, and contract, and follow, and keep the practices.
That is the examples, models of this. So therefore, therefore this is the first trait as is always
making.
Making what my teaching says. First trait, first wealth. Somehow when we are missing that,
we are missing 25% of the wealth, or maybe more.
Generally in the teaching said, when we join the stainless king, when we do the 10th day Burya, 25
th Burya,
we join the stainless, which is translated in English, and our book, the stainless king.
The number one of the putting down force, first one is disobeying, disrespectful to the Vaidya Jaya
,
or Vaidya master, is the first drawn force.
And we do that, according to Buddhism and Vaidya in our teaching, our spiritual ground is trembling
, shaking, shaking.
That is what I read in this teaching said. So, that is how it is.
And so, that is really about this first one. The next one is, is the next wealth, is love and
affection for the Samaya brothers and sisters.
Love and affection for the Samaya brothers. That is second wealth. Second wealth of this teaching.
Generally what, according to Mahayana teaching, of course, all brother teaching is love and
compassion to others.
It is so important. Because teaching, Buddha's teaching, essence, heart essence teaching, is loving
kindness, compassion, non-violence, peace.
Peace and non-violence start with compassion, loving kindness.
So, all teaching is love and compassion, best of loving kindness and compassion.
But particularly, Mahayana highlighted compassion. Mahayana teaching highlighted for all the
sentient beings without any boundaries.
So therefore, again, of course, all sentient beings have love and affection, according to Mahayana,
according to Vaidyanas.
Particularly here, teaching, talking, those who share the same Samayas, same teaching, same
practices.
That is known as the same, similar Samaya or the same, who share the same Samayas.
Also, whether they are male, whether they are female, or male, no homies.
And as in going about, again, Vaidyana teaching said, there is poor groups of the brothers and
sisters.
First one is called general brother and sisters.
The second is known as brother, inner brother and sisters.
And third one is the close brother and sister, third group is.
Fourth group is very intimate brother and sisters. These four are our general brother and sisters,
all of them.
The first one is general brother and sisters, who they are.
Now all the sentient beings, as Mahayana, Bodhicata, may all living beings have happiness and the
cause of happiness.
And may all living beings, instead of that, maybe in this case, may all our brothers and sisters
have happiness and the cause of happiness.
Every living being. So all living beings is the general brother and sisters.
In teaching what I said in that, those who all have the Buddha nature, all who have the Buddha
nature, they are our brothers and sisters.
So that's general brother and sisters.
Then inner brother and sisters, who they, according to teaching, is all the follower of the Buddha,
follower of the Buddha, is called inner brother and sisters.
We share all of the same great masters, teaching, the Buddha chapter one, inner brother.
And then, known as, if one is the close brother and sisters, we share the similar worlds and share
the same mandalas, same practices, same meditations, similar accumulation practices.
Those are known as the close, close connected brothers and sisters.
Then, intimate brothers and sisters, those are, in the teaching, the same teachers, same practices.
And the practice is even the same teaching in one circles, and generally the same mandalas, same
time. And this is the empowerment and teachings.
And that's mission, with the instructors. Those are, then, all known as intimate brothers.
And the teachings said, the intimate brother, actually, it's not just the intimate brother and
sisters now, but we will accompany them until we reach enlightenment, according to teaching.
And therefore, respect and appreciation, kind, nice to each other, so important.
How they use the examples? As the instability, they have the butter lamb, butter lamb.
And this is intimate brother, they will accompany, accompany, took it there as butter in a week, in
a fire.
They keep burning, keep lightening, keep illuminating throughout the lifetime.
So therefore, His only Guru will say it, say it, the affection, affection, and affection, yeah,
love and affection, to that, that one would say Samayas.
And what else? For example, if we look, think of this, like, now we start talking this, like, the
potent blue dawn pulse.
When we read this, that praise, what is thought of that? Thought dawn pulse.
And we angrily, angrily criticizing, pointing with the very brother and sisters, it's a thought
dawn pulse.
That is, Buddha Sakyaman said, in the poem of the Vedic Dara, or the Sum of the Brothers, or the
Great Masters.
So therefore, it is always so, really, this can happen, we can happen these things, nothing really
unusual, because we are already sentient beings.
By cleansing and purifying. Also, great teacher, Buddha Sakyaman, gives the perfect tools, or how
to clean, how to purify, and how to advance ourselves.
So, purification practices, so powerful, and so important.
And we keep up that, we have now 50% wealth, being tagged, 50%, all in tags.
And the next one is, then is what? Next wealth according to his teachings.
Bodhic Dara, compared to all, compared to all other sentient beings.
That is wealth. Bodhic Dara is wealth of the practicing, practicality.
And of course, our own goal, too many things about Bodhic Dara, we all know, we all receive these
teachings,
we've all been discussing this now, many times, because it's so important, so special, and
necessary is the condition of these entire practices.
And this is, again, that means, here, compassion, Bodhic Dara is not just a way to do these
practices, where we know the sadness, or join three times those prayers.
It means, he's the human saint, always, because this is the wealth of all the time, everlasting
wealth.
Therefore, we keep this wealth all the time, whether we are in a meditation status, or practicing
status,
or whether we are in also a meditation status, we should keep this Bodhic Dara.
Bodhic Dara has two, we discuss any, and you know all that.
Relate true Bodhic Dara, and absolute true Bodhic Dara.
And coordinate your practices, apply that as much as you can, particularly Bodhic Dara of Relatru,
with four boneless toads.
Really, we keep that to all the sentient beings, as much as you can.
Okay, to all the beings, and we have that, then this is, will become the 75% of the wealth, wealth
of, very much, so that is Bodhic Dara.
Keep all the time that Bodhic Dara.
And the next one is, next wealth is, then, the impermanent.
He said that, and the reduction of the grasping due to knowledge, that all component things are
impermanent.
And everything is impermanent. There is nothing is really not impermanent.
That means, all the relative truth is impermanent status.
There is a coordinate teaching, there is true economy impermanence.
Impermanent, something that's suddenly impermanent, then we won't detect ourselves.
Because, and there is gross impermanent, that which we detect, we know, may that happen.
Suddenly, impermanent is just constantly happening.
There is no stopping point.
Everything is moving and changing.
Changing to the different stages.
Even our eye and knowledge didn't detect according to the teaching.
Everything, both external, universal, world, and our self, our physical condition, and all is
changed.
And our self, as well as our mind is changed.
There is nothing really lasting forever.
For those reasons, in the teaching, there is many of them.
The end of the birth is to death.
End of the birth is death.
End of the building up, erecting, is going to fall apart.
Or demolish, fall apart, or go into crumbs.
End of gathering is going to parting.
Parting.
End of the...
Accumulating the wealth is going to consume.
End of the high stages is going to fall down.
This is where the nature is.
Nothing is going to last forever.
For them should not grasp and cling.
Always they have that thought.
Thought, as much as with that thought, is all is like magical.
Magic is like a mirage, like a reflection moon in the waters.
With those understanding, increasing more love and complete wisdom to all the beings
in the joint, appreciating ourselves of this situation.
Even though those are all like impermanence, but yet we are really functioning.
Perfectly beautiful.
How wonderful, how beautiful.
You, this time, for the beautiful fulfillment, that is known as practitioner's.
And we have kicked this up for, then here, his own junior,
everlasting wealth of practitioner's.
And we add one more, as I said yesterday,
the cause and the effect as I in L double.
We put up that.
That is just perfect.
And also this encompasses, they call in the teaching one called,
Paul in our session talks.
This is, it's also encompassed Paul in our session talks.
True.
Therefore, it's just have those thought and attitude.
It's really the foundation of the practice.
And that makes practice so beautiful, so strong.
And we will become very wealthy practitioners.
Really spiritual, very wealthy.
And we will lead that this wealth, wealth with us at all in the teaching.
When we lead this world, this wealth, whatever you develop,
unearn the richness of the spiritual, it well came with us.
It's never going to leave behind as samsara material wealth.
This wealth comes.
This is therefore his own junior, everlasting wealth.
This is not going to something leave behind and then empty head, leave the wall.
We go with full of air, full with heart, filled with reach,
courage and commitment.
Confidence.
Really we lead this, according to the teaching.
So this is the, this poor wealth.
And that is my brief talk for today.
And thank very much everyone again for participate.
And then I like to do this, even though maybe I'll give you the box of hope,
quite while, but I like to complete this, this one,
this teaching of his own junior, slowly by slowly.
So that's my kind of thinking.
And as well as his son, my brother and my son.
And I also, I kind of encourage him to do that.
And I like to do that.
And thank you very much for participating again.
Thank you every, thank you.
And today is a very special day, as I say, that you know how to do it.
So now we do the how to do it.
Praise.
But at the same time, for practice.
I remember that you do the practice, the idea of time, please join with us.
We will do the same.
Thank you.
And then we are the Buddha of the buddha sadhana.
We follow with that.
This is the buddha sadhana.
Please, please.
And now we add this buddha sadhana to the new version.